elliotisacoolguy, dir. _I Designed in Programs Never Made for Design_. 2025. 44:54. [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WtTRPjjJhDg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WtTRPjjJhDg).

In *I Designed in Programs Never Made for Design*, elliotisacoolguy attempts to recreate his business card in as many programs that are not slated for graphic design. Many of the programs selected are created for the express purpose of entertainment, like *Donkey Kong Bonanza's* 3D Artist mode, which is designed as a showcase of the game's environmental building tools or TuxPaint, which is meant to be an open-source allegory to classic child-friendly canvas programs like KidPix or Mario Paint. Elliot's experience interfacing with the aforementioned software is very in-line with the intended experience with the programs, with a few hiccups like TuxPaint crashing while scrolling through the available fonts.

However, Elliot's experiences with design software dedicated to *other* disciplines is where he works in an entirely unique design space of his own creation. In an excellent decision to allow for jank to guide his work, he opts to not utilize any tutorial material when working in programs he is unfamiliar with, and the result of this decision is best shown in his experience with Godot and TouchDesigner. These programs are specifically created with game design and audiovisual design respectively, and are not intuitive nor conducive to traditional graphic design. 

Godot is a game engine that utilizes a node-based structure for its object management. Users select Nodes from an impressively long list of pre-made objects and utilities that comprise the pieces of a videogame. Elliot makes repeated use AcceptDialog and Popup windows in order to place text on his business card. These Nodes, however, are not the best way of placing text in a 2D space, as he later muses that he could have used the Label node but was not aware of its existence. He ran into multiple issues with the Popup windows all immediately adjusting their position when performing certain actions, so his meticulously placed text assets were also completely unstable. His business card also made use of animations to change the color of his 11-pointed star logo.

TouchDesigner is a program designed for professionals to create audiovisual displays for concerts, that utilizes a graph structure to organize and determine the relationship between defined 3D objects and external stimuli, like time or sound. This structure is similar to Unreal Engine's Blueprints, as well as shader graph structures in modeling software like Blender. Elliot's business card, however, was designed entirely using the nodes in the graph, as, without tutorials, he was unable to create an output more complicated than a 3D torus that changes from the default material to an orange material. He fought with the software attempting to merge nodes that were dragged on top of one another by gently moving them underneath each other as to not trigger this in-built feature. Halfway through his original design, however, he closes the software and re-opens it to discover it had auto-updated in the background. His project no longer worked, and his workarounds to overlay nodes was no longer functional. He also was no longer able to add a return character to his text in the same way as before, and he was now required to use a tutorial to create the same project he had worked on before the update.

This exercise of choosing a program with the explicit purpose of doing something entirely unrelated to the intention of the program is an excellent example of janking the design process. Elliot designed an excellent game for himself and experienced "issues" with the software that the majority of the user base would not encounter. At any point during this process he could have changed his ruleset to accommodate the software being uncooperative, but his willingness to experiment created an incredibly interesting and eye-catching business card design that gives viewers insight into the software used to create it.