[[Janky Controls and Embodied Play]]

“Jank” is an often used term in studying and playing games. Colloquially, the term is used to describe an experience where the outcome of a player’s action in a game does not replicate their expectations. There are a myriad of reasons for this to occur during gameplay. To name a few reasons, this phenomenon can occur as a result of a player’s prior literacy, in-game glitches, or unconventional design choices and/or oversights from the developer.
 
M.D. Schmalzer's definition of jank is "a player’s perception that a videogame does not behave in the ways that it should." This definition intends to include glitch, which complicates the notion of jank. Artists and scholars alike have experimented with intentionally using glitches to create art and/or to explore existing games deeper. While the result of using glitches may be unexpected, the intentional choice to utilize glitch as part of the game experience creates a new gameplay circuit between the hardware and the player that is not inherently janky.

For the purposes of this paper, jank will be examined as a phenomenon that is more playful. This is not to make the claim that a computer can play with a human player, but rather that a player can playfully engage with jank when it occurs. The difficulty with pinning down this experience is its unpredictability. Researchers can intentionally engage with content that has *more* potential for jank, but all games have potential. Modern games, for example, allow developers the ability to update them and patch unintended behavior, which can remove some potential for a player to experience jank. Conversely, this relationship damages the relationship with players and the events that caused them to experience jank. One example of a relationship like this is the dragon Greyoll in Elden Ring. Players discovered the ability to attack Greyoll in a location where the dragon would be unable to command the neighboring lesser dragons to defend her. Greyoll's immense health pool would prevent her from being killed under normal circumstances, but players discovered that the Bleed status deals damage equal to a percentage of enemies' max health, rather than a flat damage value like in *Dark Souls II*. 

This oversight became well-known as one of the most efficient early-game "rune farms." Many other rune farms were discovered, each felt equally janky. The player could stand atop a cliffside and fire an arrow at a patrolling bird enemy, who, upon being hit, would attempt to chase the player, resulting in it comedically falling off of the map with no animation. Another efficient rune farm was in Mohgwyn palace, where the player could scale a precarious cliffside not intended to be climbed and jump off of the map. By repeatedly using the attack animation, the player was able to bypass the timer that would kill them after falling off of a cliff and continue to fall indefinitely. As a result, the level would unload, but the enemies would stay loaded. As a result, every enemy would fall to its' death and give the player all of their stored runes. In subsequent patches of *Elden Ring*, including the DLC, Greyoll's rune farm and the bird were not removed, but the Mohgwyn palace rune farm was removed. In my own play experience, this felt as if FromSoftware was acknowledging the existence of the former two rune farms and permitting them to exist while simultaneously deciding the latter rune farm was *too* janky. As a result, my experience playing the game after these changes felt more like engaging with an intentional mechanic, rather than my previous perception of this being janky.

