Pippin Barr encourages designers to apply his "Method for Design Materialization," where designers include detailed notes in version control not only of changes made to the game, but also any associated thoughts or ideas they had while working on that portion of the game. He cites specifically that "\[he would] like us all to feel the strange pleasures of disciplining the foliage or announcing decrees on dwarven marriage," in reference to the contents of the patch notes for *No Man's Sky* and *Dwarf Fortress*.

“RocketBaby’s Video Game and Anime Music Journal: Interview with Kota Hoshino.” Accessed March 12, 2025. [https://rocketbaby.net/interviews_hoshino_egac2_1.html](https://rocketbaby.net/interviews_hoshino_egac2_1.html).

- **Patch Notes**: Some games literally tell their history through records of patch notes. More often than not developers are proud to demonstrate the improvements made to the game and this energy is reflected in the verbiage used in the patch notes. Patch notes often come with a hierarchy of importance for changes, reflected in the ordering on the site and by sections that come with unique art. Examining these notes allow us insight into which changes were the most important not only to player experience, but also for the developers' enjoyment.
- **Kota Hoshino**: 
	- **Shopping With Palmira Ore** - *Evergrace*: This game is somewhat notorious for it's bad soundtrack. Hoshino is on record at the time stating that he cannot read music, and a result does not often compose orchestral scores. He also described his use of voices as instruments as an attempt to make an "ethnic" sound.