"Rather, most of the design work takes place in conversation with stuff. A game programming framework like Phaser trumpets the virtues of making a game based on physics. User interface conventions admonish me to improve the usability of my menu system design. The Unity game engine whispers seductively about the beauty of 3D environments. When you’re listening, the stuff games are made of is not quiet, not transparent, and not just there to be used. It’s a close companion, offering up its own ideas about game design all along the way." -Pippin Barr

- The pieces of the design process all "speak," and their voices impact the design choices made during development.
	- **User Interface**: Godot's interface for designing UI is very different than Unity's, where Godot *heavily* encourages anchoring elements where Unity allows for a more free-form layout of elements. This leads to Godot's UI properly scaling for multiple resolutions in the build without any extra effort, whereas a developer in Unity may discover that their build functions differently than in-engine.
	- **Constraints**: The context in which the game is being developed heavily determines the content of the game. If the game is being worked on for a game jam, the scale is forcibly constrained as opposed to a semester-long project that can be more substantial. Conversely, the concentrated effort required to complete a game jam can result in a more polished product compared to the less substantial work days required to complete a long-form project.
	- **Environment**: The environment the game is meant to be played in not only affects the design of the game but also the design of the associated materials. Designing a game to be played unattended at a convention is considerably different than designing a game designed to be played in an embedded window in a browser. The former provides more possibility spaces for designing unique components for the game (if we consider the game to include its promotional material), while the latter allows for less time commitment but substantially more accessibility for a wider audience.
	- **Audience**: Members of the chosen audience exhibit an *embodied literacy* of their past experience with not only games, but related media as well. 
		- **Interfaces**: Those in retirement homes tend to gravitate towards the motion controls of the Wii and the ease of access of *Wii Sports*, but 20-somethings will typically have much more of an opinion on which input scheme makes the most sense for each individual game. Some swear by the Wiimote/nunchuck combo for shooters, some prefer a controller with gyro assist, and some prefer desk-wide mousepads with low sensitivity and 500hz refresh rate monitors.