Boluk, Stephanie, and Patrick LeMieux. Metagaming: Playing, Competing, Spectating, Cheating, Trading, Making, and Breaking Videogames. Electronic Mediations 53. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 2017.

p8-9. "Rules are voluntary constraints and social contracts. They are pacts between players not to peek or move outside invisible boundaries. Mechanics, on the other hand, are ontological operations. Players have no choice but to work within the limitations of these involuntary systems. Whereas rules can be broken at a moment’s notice, mechanics cannot be turned off. There is no cheating in Super Mario Bros."

p25. "the word metagame has become a common label for games about games, games within games, games around games, and games without games. The referentiality of pixelated indie games and Atari-based art installations is a mimetic metagame about videogames. The glitches exploited when speedrunning The Legend of Zelda (1986) or competing in Super Smash Bros. (1999) are material metagames within videogames. The psychologies of professional StarCraft (1998) players and their audience’s reactions during international tournaments are metagames around videogames. And the espionage and economy both in and outside EVE Online (2003) is a metagame of markets that operate without the videogame itself."

p25. "Difficult to design, impossible to predict, deeply collaborative, and always ephemeral, metagaming undermines the authority of videogames as authored objects, packaged products, intellectual property, and copyrighted code by transforming single-use software into materials for making many metagames."