Deterding, Sebastian. “The Pyrrhic Victory of Game Studies: Assessing the Past, Present, and Future of Interdisciplinary Game Research.” _Games and Culture_ 12, no. 6 (September 2017): 521–43. [https://doi.org/10.1177/1555412016665067](https://doi.org/10.1177/1555412016665067).

p10. "There are now established game research topics germane to HCI: game usability, user research, and user experience (Bernhaupt, 2010; Isbister & Schaffer, 2008). Analyzing a decade of game-related CHI publications, Carter and colleagues (2014) found five topical research clusters: applied gaming; game design, evaluation, and development methods; tangible, public, and location-based gaming; interface design; and player experience."

p11. "Game-related communication research again forms a homogenous body of problems, theories, methods, and authors: overwhelmingly using laboratory experiments and surveys to study the uses and effects of games understood as entertainment media, framed through psychological constructs such as aggression, mood management, presence, involvement, self-determination, or appreciation (Reinecke & Trepte, 2012; Vorderer & Bryant, 2006)."

p13. "Appearing on the cultural landscape around 2010, gamification—the use of game design elements in nongame contexts—presents the newest iteration of applied games and play, rapidly outpacing serious games in public attention (Walz & Deterding, 2015). One might assume that game studies would actively embrace gamification as a widening of its relevance. Instead, game studies scholars predominantly critiqued gamification as ‘‘a perversion of games’’ (Bogost, 2011; cf. Deterding, 2015, for a review). A recent systematic review suggests that gamification research overwhelmingly appears in HCI, computer science, marketing, and education venues, not game studies (Seaborn & Fels, 2015)."