The definition of "videogame," however, matters more for the purposes of distinguishing jank from glitch and bug.

"Games are highly related to simulations. Both are often used to model systems, situations and events. Both are essentially sequences of carefully designed experiences, co-created through the decisions of designers and our choices at run-time" (Khaled, 2018). This notion of co-creation is essential exploring the affect of jank on the play experience. There are many factors related to every component of this system; players' cyclical rhythms, embodied literacy, and able-bodiedness; the hardware's performance capabilities and functionality; the videogame's code, design philosophy, and popularity. As a result, every game that is played within a system is wholly unique every time, even between individual sessions of the same player. Some elements may be similar; they could be in a Discord call with the same friends, their controller could malfunction in similar ways (ie. stick drift or snapback), or they could experience the same out-of-bounds glitch as a previous play session, but the system that is formed as a result has never previously been played and will never be played again. Jank spontaneously interrupts these formed systems and encourages players to redesign the game they are playing.

As explored in Keogh's *A Play of Bodies*, the player's cyclical rhythms form a portion of the gameplay experience. "Cyclical rhythms suggest that the physical needs of the gaming body, and the ways that meeting these needs are organized are an important part of the gaming experience. However, the linear rhythms of digital game play, and the sociality of play, indicate that both the machinic rhythm of play itself, and the wider rhythms of everyday life also have significant impacts on the experience of gaming" (Keogh, 2010).

Khaled's definition of "game" also encourages interrogating all aspects of games to discover new play experiences, lamenting that "rough edges not conforming to mainstream game design norms or player tastes—potentially innovative or idiosyncratic of the designer—are sanded off lest they turn potential players away"(Khaled, 2018).


A videogame is a system defined by explicit software rules and implicit rules defined by the developer. A software bug occurs as a result of the system not working as defined, which is likely due to faulty or incompatible hardware. A glitch occurs as a result of the system working as defined, but not as expected or intended. Jank often occurs as a result of software bugs and glitches, but can also occur during "normal" gameplay, where software/hardware rules allow the rules defined by the developer to be broken and/or defied.