p194. "Haptic interface presents synthetic stimulation to somatic sensation. Somatic sensation comprises proprioception and skin sensation. Proprioception is complemented by mechanoreceptors of skeletal articulations and muscles. There are three types of joint position receptors: (1) free nerve endings, (2) Ruffini corpuscles, and (3) Pacinian corpuscles. The Ruffini corpuscle detects static force. On the other hand, Pacinian corpuscle has a function to measure acceleration of the joint angle. Position and motion of the human body is perceived by these receptors."

p202. "It is difficult to attach and remove a wearable type of haptic interface, and if it is attached for a long time the user will get fatigued. On the other hand, handheld types of haptic interfaces are easier to use, since they are easy to attach and remove when the user gets fatigued."

p209. "Haptics is indispensable for human interaction in the real world. However, haptics is not commonly used in the field of HCI. Although there are several commercially available haptic interfaces, they are expensive and limited in their function. Image display has a history spanning over 100 years. Today, image displays, such as television displays or movies, are used in everyday life. On the other hand, haptic interfaces have only a 10-year-old history. There are hazards to overcome before the popular use of haptic interfaces can become a reality."

p251. "Also any delays reduce the sense of immersion—being there within the virtual environment. Early studies of VR showed that users’ sense of immersion was far better when they were given very responsive wire frame images than when they were given fully rendered images at a delayed and lower frame rate (Pausch 1991)."