p96. "Heads requires an intermediary, but tails does not. Which side of the coin should we choose? Well, of course, it depends. If we choose heads, then the pen has an advantage because it employs a mechanical intermediary. A stylus is a familiar tool to which users may bring highly developed skills for handwriting, sketching, and drawing... If we choose tails instead, on the other side of the coin, then touch has an advantage because it does not require a mechanical intermediary. Unlike a stylus, there is nothing to lose. The user always carries their finger with them. Furthermore, the user can start interacting immediately."

p98. "Rather than focusing on one modality, such as touch, our collective goal as a community of researchers, designers, and practitioners should be to understand how to most effectively design systems that use input modalities in combination, where the strengths of one compensate for the limitations of another."

p98. "With respect to systems and devices, there are two basic design strategies: (1) We can design for breadth, supporting a wide ecosystem of hardware and modalities with a one-size-fits-all design. Designing for breadth creates a common platform that unifies many different devices and experiences, with all the benefits (as well as the drawbacks) that are inherent in an accretion of features and interfaces. (2) Or we can design for depth, with a core sample carefully drilled through the many strata of target market, user experience, input modality, display size and form factor, operating system, and application design."

p101. "**Device acquisition time**: The average time to move one’s hand to a device is known as acquisition time. Homing time is the time to return from a device to a “home” position (e.g., return from mouse to keyboard)."

p105. "An indirect-input device is one that does not provide input in the same physical space as the output. Indirect devices eliminate occlusion of the screen by the user’s hand and fingers. However, typically they require more explicit feedback and representation of the input device (such as a cursor), intended target on the screen (such as highlighting icons when the cursor hovers over them), and current state of the device (such as whether a button is held or not)."

p112. "Internal sensations of body posture, motion, and muscle tension (Burdea 1996; Gibson 1962) may allow users to feel how they are moving an input device without looking at the device or receiving visual feedback on a display. This is important when the user’s attention is divided between multiple tasks and devices (Balakrishnan and Hinckley 1999; Fitzmaurice and Buxton 1997; Mine, Brooks, and Sequin 1997)."

p112. "With time, users can adapt to any consistent mapping (Cunningham and Welch 1994) so long as the mapping between input and display is a planar reorientation. Despite this ability, graphical feedback on the screen ideally should correspond with the direction in which a user moves an input device (Britton, Lipscomb, and Pique 1978). If the user moves a device to the left, then the object on the screen should likewise move to the left; however, users can easily adapt to certain kinds of noncorrespondences: When the user moves a mouse forward and backward, the cursor actually moves up and down on the screen; if the user drags a scrollbar downward, the text on the screen scrolls upward."

p112. "Visual dominance refers to the tendency of vision to dominate other modalities (Wickens 1992); haptic feedback typically must closely match visual feedback, which limits its utility as an independent modality (Campbell et al. 1999)"

p113. "Procedural [[Memory]] facilitates human performance of complex sequences of practiced movements, such as riding a bike, seemingly without any cognitive effort (Anderson 1980). Procedural memory (which is sometimes informally referred to as muscle memory) is a distinct type of memory that resides below a person’s conscious awareness. Procedural memory enables touch typing on a keyboard with minimal attention (Anderson 1980). As a result, users can focus their attention on mental composition and verification of the text appearing on the screen."