p809. "At the most basic level, we categorize our data into two types: behavioral and attitudinal. Behavioral refers to observable data based on performance, or particular actions performed by a participant that one can measure. This is very similar to typical measures taken in usability tests (e.g., time it takes to complete a task, number of attempts it takes to successfully complete a task, and task completion). Attitudinal refers to data that represent participant opinions or views, such as subjective ratings from questionnaires or surveys. These are often used to quantify user experiences."

p809. "A **structured usability test** maintains all the characteristics that Dumas and Redish (1999) propose as common to all usability tests: (1) the goal is to improve usability of the product, (2) participants represent real users, (3) participants do real tasks, (4) participant behavior and verbal comments are observed and recorded, and (5) data are analyzed, problems are diagnosed, and changes are recommended."
- p810. "As mentioned, one of the most important steps in this procedure is defining the participant profile(s). Getting the appropriate users for testing is vital to the success and validation of the data since games are subject to much scrutiny and criticism from its gamers. To reiterate, playing games is a choice."
- p810. "Tasks and task scenarios were created to simulate situations that a gamer may encounter when playing the game... Participants were instructed to talk aloud, and performance metrics were recorded (i.e., task completion, time)."

