p120. "In order to build up your vocabulary to talk about games, some of the important factors are being familiar with the discourse of the communities of academics and practitioners, keeping up with publications, and constantly playing games, old and new. By being a part of the game community and continuing to explore, you will also find new areas that may need frameworks to understand them better."

p137. "The dynamics of the game consist of how the game plays out, the type of strategies that the game invites, and even the kind of exploits that can derive from the rules; these are all the result of the rules in action."

p137. "The strategies that players deploy while playing the game can be part of the formal study of games; what is more interesting is to study the resulting player strategies that may not have been anticipated by the designers, and the novel ways in which players decide to play. Unexpected or unusual player behaviors and how players appropriate a game can be the foundation to argue for its special status."

p138. "It is very easy to get lost in the discussion of very concrete strategies and cases once one knows the game well enough; it is just as easy to write an expert explanation that is completely opaque and very difficult to follow."

p143. "Controllers involve a certain literacy, that is, knowing how to use them in order to play. Beware of thinking that controls are “intuitive”—even gesture and movement based controls require some time to learn how to use them."

p147 - 148. "Questions to identify the formal elements that indicate the level of difficulty of a game: 
- Does the game have specific settings to change the difficulty? 
- How frequent are the challenges?
- How much leeway does the player have to recover from a mistake? 
- What is the proportion between the powers/stats of the player and those of the opponents in the game? 
- Does the game teach the player how to get better at the game? Or does it expect previous knowledge and skills to play it? 
- Which elements of the game change as the game progresses to make it more difficult? Does the game become more difficult?"

p151. "Emergence is the term we use to define how the events and outcomes of the game are generated by the player interacting with the system, specifically referring to gameplay."