p66. "This technique (**behavioral observation**) can be as simple as looking over the shoulders of individuals when they are playing a game, or as complex as high-definition video recording of players from different angles in a natural gaming environment, such as a living room. Because of its relative simplicity and the actionable results that it produces, behavioral observation is often regarded as the most valuable \[games user research\] technique."

p68. "The **think-aloud** protocol was developed in usability testing for products (Lewis 1982) and later made its way from interaction design to \[games user research\]... Players are asked to talk about what they are thinking as they play through the game... This method requires some skill from the player (for unskilled think-aloud participants, a moderator might need to be present to trigger player reporting, which could influence the natural flow of information). The better the player is at commenting their own behavior in the game, the more insights this method is likely to yield for the \[games user research\] professional."

p68. "**Interviews** are a common method of qualitative subjective inquiry, providing direct insight into the player experience. Much of the quality of the data collected during an interview session depends on the skill of the interviewer. Interviews allow a greater degree of depth when analyzing player opinions, emotions, and reactions... Since human memory is limited, sometimes a gameplay video (recorded during the play session) is used as a recall aid to trigger the [[Memory]] of a player’s experience (Table 4.2)."

p69. "usually used to get insights into value judgments about gameplay moments... A **questionnaire** can be delivered to players directly after a gameplay event (e.g., making a choice in the game) or after a gameplay session, so that experience is still present in memory. This is arguably less biased than, for example, recalling an experience during an interview session post-gameplay."

p70. "Since **focus groups** are an easy way to gather opinions and feedback on ideas, they can be used early on in development, even after a game prototype session or an initial design presentation. While focus groups allow feedback from crowds rather than individuals (somewhat seeming like an extension of the interview technique), they have the disadvantage that once an opinion is present in the crowd, others may pick up on this opinion and the results may become biased."

p70. - 71. "In this context, the evaluation consists of judging how an interface complies with recognized usability principles, which are called “heuristics”. It is known as a discount usability method, because it is cheap to conduct and can yield significant actionable results for a game. The method includes \[games user research\] experts playing a game and evaluating it based on a set of criteria."

p71. - 72. "A huge advantage of **metrics** is the large amount of data being collected. This can also prove detrimental, as this data has to be analyzed quickly and accurately, which often means that a \[games user research\] professional has to use visualization software to make sense of such vast collections of data."