Designing a game to be played in-engine using @tool

As briefly explained in Steve Swink's [[Game Feel]], Gameplay Gardens are the (normally) inaccessible testing environments created during the development process of any game. These environments are designed to help developers determine the limits of selected mechanics. The level geometry in these spaces are typically rough as a result of using low-poly temporary assets. The player may have access to areas they typically wouldn't otherwise, such as regions to view the backfaces of assets or access to the nearly infinite space below the level. The esoteric nature of gameplay gardens makes them difficult to study, but some vectors do exist.

Datamining is one method of examining gameplay gardens, but is a notoriously difficult operation for those inexperienced with the process. While many data miners use the software to uncover upcoming content to "leak" information about popular games, some use the software to further explore the world of popular games. The *Dark Souls* series has a mystique about it, as the entries in the series are known for their cryptic storytelling and level design. Players have used datamining to examine hidden information about the lore of these games by examining cut content and unused assets. For instance, Zullie the Witch examined the implication of fully modeled fauna in *Dark Souls II*, as the series is known for being a world in decay. As a result of this decay, all fauna is either dead or visibly diseased, as demonstrated by the boars in the video. Zullie explains that the existence of normal-looking fauna in *Dark Souls II* ties into the themes of time travel that the game was originally going to focus on, and would have been used to juxtapose Drangleic in the past to its decayed present.

In a personal anecdote, an example of exploring gameplay gardens my involvement in early testing during the development of a friend's game, *Run Slide Jump*. We often will send early builds of projects to one another to get feedback, and in this instance he was working on a movement-based first-person platformer. He asked for feedback on the current feel of the character controller while challenging me to beat his best time on the demo course he had developed. In order to be thorough, I recorded myself playing his game so I would be able to more adequately report any bugs I discovered. I played through the level as normal for a handful of attempts, but ended up wanting to cut down on my overall time to beat his. I planned out a route that did a majority of the level in reverse and found that I was easily able to beat his original time using this method. I sent him the recording of the new world record on his demo course, which prompted him to not only develop a special leaderboard for "alternate times," where the player goes a route that is different than intended, but also to specifically create levels with intentional shortcuts to potentially enable more alternate routes being discovered. The rigorous play that I participated in during the early development of this project changed the core philosophy used when developing the game, and resulted in the original demo level being included as a playable level in the final game.

Exposing elements of these hidden environments can allow players a glimpse into the decisions made and shortcuts taken by the developers to complete the game. Allowing players access to developer commands through gamic elements creates a new circuit between the player and the developer - one where players are able to playfully engage with and break what were previously assumed to be the limits of the game world. In a very recent example, Mojang released their April Fool's update (as they do annually) for *Minecraft* dubbed *Craftmine*. This update inverts the gameplay loop of *Minecraft*, where players craft "mines," which are entirely unique dimensions generated with specifications given by the player. Players then explore these mines to harvest them for valuable resources to gain experience, which allows them to craft more complex mines.

The success of this update is twofold: players are able to engage with an entirely new twist on the base game without the hassle of using mods, and the developers are able to somewhat circumvent the frameworks for updates put in place by their parent company, *Microsoft*. In general, these April Fool's updates are able to experiment with new ideas (in prior years, a potato-based grappling hook and infinite random dimensions) without the concern for the impact it will have on the game overall. Craftmine gives players access to custom developer-made items not available in the base game, such as the "Shazboots!" that provide a level of mobility that is otherwise impossible to obtain, or the "Dimension Control" block that allows players to freely change the skybox by inputting secret "Sky Box" blocks. Some of these skyboxes exist in the base game, but others are entirely new, headache inducing, and/or nauseating. These items can be acquired without cheats in Creative Mode, or by utilizing a "Shimmering Key" to create a secret room that contains all of these items hidden behind iron bars.

Because of the imperfect nature of this update, few restrictions are placed on the player in regards to the hub world. In my own experience of playing this update, one of the other players in the server upgraded the "Thorns++" skill in their skill tree, which resulted in his character exploding whenever he took damage. I had taken the "You Are The Campfire" skill, which allowed me to create fire on the ground by punching it. We discovered the interaction where I was able to punch the player with "Thorns++", which results in his character exploding and respawning at a fixed point. I placed fire at that point, and whenever he respawned he would instantly die and explode. This resulted in not only the destruction of our "Mine Crafter", the block that enables the entire gimmick of the update functioning, but also thirty minutes of us going hoarse from laughing at the destruction this skill tree combination caused.

Switching a skybox in most game engines is incredibly easy. These interfaces are often drag and drop, and allow for easily adjusting the skybox at runtime. The typical application of this ease of access is to create day/night cycles, but the concept of allowing players to customize the skybox to their preferences is almost entirely unexplored. In *Craftmine*, the renaming of the skybox to the Sky Box positions it as understandable in the language of *Minecraft*, positioning the Sky Box as just another block. Many of the decisions made to construct a game in modern game engines are streamlined and immediately forgotten. Explorations into gameplay gardens gives players, developers and researched unique insight into the priorities of the original dev team, as well as access to tools they wouldn't otherwise be able to interface with.