Khaled and Barr's [[Generative Logics and Conceptual Clicks A Case Study of the Method for Design Materialization|Method for Design Materialization]] (MDM) concerns itself with the reflective process of journaling during the development of a videogame. The strength of this method is its ability to provide detailed evidence to explain the rationale behind each decision made during the development process, as well as an exact timestamp of when those decisions were approved and appended to the product. This process provides future analysts with a window into not only the technical requirements of implementing of the game idea, but also an accurate depiction of the developer's thought process and decision making throughout development.

While this method should prove immensely helpful when analyzing the development process of a chosen title, it does not necessarily encourage the analyst to design their own game. In *Generative Logics and Conceptual Clicks: A Case Study of the Method for Design Materialization*, Barr and Khaled pose the question: [[Generative Logics and Conceptual Clicks A Case Study of the Method for Design Materialization|"why is it that “real-world” game designers can make assertions about game design that in academia we feel we are not allowed to make?"]] Their answer to this question is that scholars' reliance on evidence often holds them back from making assertions on design, and as such designed MDM to assist in filling that gap. By utilizing this method to generate researchable evidence, they propose that scholars will be able to participate in an epistemological approach to design research.

MDM is an excellent starting point in allowing scholars to generate artifacts for use in epistemological design research, but it does not necessarily encourage experimenting *with* the design process itself. Additionally, MDM is inaccessible to analog game designers unless they choose to use digital tools to document their design process. Khaled and Barr also state the importance in actually playing a game to properly understand it, which is addressed in MDM by analysts being extended the ability to play historical versions of a game through version control.

The method proposed by this section is grounded in the (now-niche) design process of instructional manuals for videogames. Building on the principles of MDM, this method seeks to extend scholars a (potentially) technology-free method of generating game ideas through casual play and jank research. Designers are encouraged to play games through either a casual or investigative lens with the intention of autoethnographically recounting the gameplay experience. Then, using this data the designer is to generate an instruction manual for how to play the game they recounted. Optionally, the designer is to develop the game described by the instruction manual to encourage further reflection on their gameplay experience, and (optionally) utilize MDM during the development process to further document the development process.

**Playing Games to Find Games**
I recently played the first few hours of FromSoftware's *Eternal Ring* (2000) for the *Playstation 2*. The game's core loop is marred by an outdated design decision that resulted in a the near inability to progress - the save points. *Eternal Ring's* save points save the player’s current health, rather than healing the player to full as seen in later games developed by the same studio. As a result, I had found myself trapped in a puzzle of my own (unintentional) design - I had overriddden my save file with one health in a cave, with the only exit being gatekept by a small ledge that dealt otherwise negligible fall damage.

In *Eternal Ring*, the player is able to craft rings with gems dropped by enemies. I had previously managed to craft a ring that gave me a powerful ranged fire spell which enabled me to deal enough damage to deal with the majority of difficult enemies in the cave. My previous approach of trading hits with enemies would not work in this instance as a result of my lack of health, so I opted for a more stealth-based approach. I would peek around corners to slowly whittle down enemies, which then made me realize that most projectiles thrown by enemies in *Eternal Ring* do not collide with walls, which additionally forced me to engage in precise positioning with the unwieldy outdated control scheme. I slowly accumulated enough gems of differing elements by painstakingly creating a save point after each random drop. I began crafting rings and reloading my most recent save file hoping I could find a combination to save me. I managed to craft a ring that converted my mana into health, and I was able heal myself enough to survive the pathetically small ledge blocking my progression (which dealt about 4 damage).

This experience of jank requires an understanding of modern game design. Many players familiar with older RPGs would have multiple save files to avoid progression-blocking issues like mine, but my reliance on modern design decisions allowed for such a scenario to occur. However, playing through these improperly designed sections evoke a sense of nostalgia and allow for the players to design their own games within a videogame.

**Designing the Instructions**

**Developing the Game**
