Due to the popularity of challenge runs in videogames, many developers have adapted the principles of design used in those videos to create new environments for development. For example, YouTuber CodeBullet has experimented with both time constraints and "engine" constraints to create entertaining content, while simultaneously exploring new spaces for design. In one video, CodeBullet develops a recreation of *Pikmin* in under 24 hours, and in another recreates *Flappy Bird* in Microsoft Paint. While these restraints do not necessarily guarantee innovative mechanics, the exploration into these spaces allows for someone like CodeBullet to examine unique ways of tackling building challenging systems and pre-existing mechanics.

Another method often used to develop games is "game jams," where a third-party defines a prompt and a set of rules to be followed during the development process.  Developers then create a game that abides by these constraints, which often leads to the development of incredibly unique mechanics and experiences. The game *Artic Eggs* originated as a game jam project that later expanded into a one-of-a-kind cooking simulation game with an incredibly interesting take on the *PlayStation's* graphical limitations.

One of the methods being proposed by this paper to introduce unpredictability into design is to develop a webscraper that compiles reviews from websites like *Metacritic* and outputs a small handful of those reviews (as well as a random overall score, potentially based off the scores of the selected reviews) to the prospective developer. The developer would then have to create the game that has been described by and rated by the randomly selected reviews. The purpose of this program is to make social the process of idea generation without the the project to being for entertainment or competition, like CodeBullet's videos and game jams respectively.