**Controls**
*Getting Over It With Bennett Foddy* is not jank. The game is built upon perceived jank in *Sexy Hiking*, which is a far more janky title. *Sexy Hiking* is not as obviously self-aware as *Getting Over It With Bennett Foddy*. The game has a bizarre art style; some pixel art, some renders, and some basic vector graphics. It also has incredibly unrealistic physics, where the amount of force the player puts into a motion is not accurately reflected in the distance the character travels. Hitboxes are unclear and, as shown in the speedrun, the player is able to clip through the ground.

*Getting Over It With Bennett Foddy*’s design is heavily inspired by *Sexy Hiking*’s jank, but the end product is not janky. The character controller functions properly at all times, and the force the player exerts on the mouse in the real world translates very well to the resultant force in the game world. The assets in *Getting Over It With Bennett Foddy* that make up the game’s singular level appear to be a hodgepodge, but each asset is stylistically consistent and is addressed directly in the narrative:

	“For years now people have been predicting that games would soon be made out of prefabricated objects, bought in a store and assembled into a world… Things are made to be consumed in a certain context, and once the moment is gone they transform into garbage. In the context of technology those moments pass by in seconds… Maybe this is what this digital culture is. A monstrous mountain of trash, the ash-heap of creativity's fountain. A landfill with everything we ever thought of in it. Grand, infinite, and un-sorted.”

Using Bennett Foddy’s previous games as context, *Getting Over It With Bennett Foddy*’s intentional and successful design becomes more apparent. *QWOP*, a game where the player controls the thighs and calves of an Olympic sprinter, is more janky. The movement of the limbs is very robotic, and the physics allow for the sprinter to float a bit. The game plays the narrative far more straightforward: if the player fails, it shows them their final distance, and if they win, it shows them their completion time. Similar to *Sexy Hiking*, *QWOP* does not demonstrate the level of self awareness that *Getting Over It With Bennett Foddy* does. Additionally, in the words of M.D. Schmalzer:

	“It does mean, however, that the controls are interpreted as janky for most because the game does not adhere to commonly held literacies. I cannot link my inputs directly to outputs because I do not have the literacies (and it is unlikely most players do) to extend my influence effectively into the digital space.”

When a player falls from a great height in *Getting Over It With Bennett Foddy*, they feel that their actions are to blame. When a player falls on their back in QWOP or clips through geometry in *Sexy Hiking*, the blame immediately falls on the game, and the latter interaction is much more in line with jank. This is why jank is incredibly difficult to intentionally design. Using jank as a backbone for design does not necessarily result in a janky game; in *Jump King*, players climb through multiple areas by jumping from platform to platform. In order to make the experience difficult, the player has no in-game indication of how far they will jump and instead has to estimate based off of how long they held the space bar. This intentional withholding of information does not feel janky; it feels intentionally frustrating. Janky games often bare everything to the player, but feel janky as a result of not functioning intuitively or not being in line with prior literacy.

In line with *Getting Over It With Bennett Foddy*, using jank as the backbone for design in controller design has allowed for content creators to make incredibly unique experiences for their audiences. A widely known application of this is Twitch Plays Pokémon. “[[Community-Based Play in Twitch Plays Pokémon|The output was calculated by a simple IRC bot written in Python. It connected to the chat server of Twitch as well as the emulator running the game, taking inputs from people in chat and executing them in the emulator. It was just a small social experiment, but it seemed like a great way to get a few hundred people to collaborate on a game in a new and interesting way, as long as all of them communicated with each other.]]” The concept of crowdsourcing input like this was entirely novel to Twitch Plays Pokémon, and the resultant jank in the on-screen actions of the player character garnered hundreds of thousands of viewers and participants.

This concept now has become a staple of many Twitch broadcasts, with streamers like DougDoug hosting D&D campaigns using random viewers as players. A recent example of this style of play is Uwos Lab’s *Twitch Chat Plays FNAF in REAL LIFE*, where viewers cycle through real-life cameras at different angles of the streamer’s real-world house while he runs around in a Freddy Fazbear costume. Twitch chat players can close doors to prevent him from entering certain areas by inputting commands that fire off hydraulics connected to doors. While Uwos Lab’s stream is a recreation of *Five Nights at Freddy’s*, it is a complete inversion of the gameplay loop, as the streamer plays as the “computer” and his chat plays as the “player.”